on my livestream and none of my audience
on livestream wants to hear me talk
about this we're gonna talk about it
anyway
Game of Thrones slash a Song of Ice and
Fire I'm gonna talk about predictions
for the future of the book which is
something I normally never do and I've
repeatedly said is stupid and lame I've
always said you know what I think is
stupid and lame is when people get into
literary analysis not as literary
analysis like not to talk about the
politics or the themes or the meaning of
the text but where they're doing
literary analysis in order to predict
you like who's gonna sleep with who
who's gonna get who pregnant like that's
some real soap opera [ __ ] you know if
you think this is a work of would you
people read Shakespeare that way like
come on and yeah you know what george RR
martin i do in a lot of ways i do put
them on the same level of shakespeare
maybe cuz I do yeah sure I'm comfortable
with that why why the hell not anyway
who else in level whatever
oh look so I do think predictions are
lame and you're gonna see I'm not gonna
approach it in that same way I'm not
gonna approach it in a soap opera like
wait um however nevertheless I feel
differently about this now because the
last season the TV show was so awful I
like lost all interest there was a time
so obviously I'm primarily into the
books like everyone is really into the
stuff I'm primarily into the books I'm
only secondarily into the TV show the TV
show is kind of echo of what's what's
going on in the books but the last
season of the TV show was so awful
it didn't just kill my interest in the
TV show it really did kill my interest
in the books too and I don't think about
the books I mean will I read the next
books when they come out it's easy for
me to say yes but now like my level of
fandom and engagement is so low I can
imagine the answer might be no so like
when the next book come out comes out I
may be enrolled in a ph.d program I may
be living in France and having more
visitation with my daughter I'm divorced
a photographer I can imagine
circumstances or I just say nope not not
gonna bother to read the book and before
before the last season what was that
season seven seas I don't even the most
recent season she show I was I was
really committed to I was really looking
forward to what was gonna happen next in
the books and you know like I sent in
some questions to some of the other
podcasts too that nobody dealt with
Jaime Lannister story so much time is
spent in the book books on Jaime
Lannister story and I don't see that
much analysis and discussion and
pointing out in the books as they now
exist it currently ends on a cliffhanger
what's gonna come next and what's what's
the significance of that the main thing
I have to say here is like Preston
Jacobs thematically and philosophically
I think you do see the direction the
books are going in by reading George RR
Martin's other science fiction that's
really clear so something I mean you see
my girlfriend primarily knows the TV
show and then she's also read she's read
a little bit of the books and of the
Duncan AG novellas and stuff so one of
the themes that comes up again and again
in George RR Martin's science fiction
most obviously in a novel short novel
called
a song for Leah lya a song for Leah but
not only there comes up again and again
is the issue of devolution of of
de-evolution in that sense and it's very
clear if you've read as other science
fiction that the children of the forest
are yet another example of an alien a
seemingly alien species that are in fact
devolved humans they're humans that have
lost some of their human traits and why
have they lost their human traits
because of their religion and because
their religion destroys the sense of
individuality a venue individual ego and
gives you instead a warming and
reassuring sense of collective ego and
an illusion of immortality
now even what I've just said now I've
listened to a huge quantity of Game of
Thrones podcasts of the literature
discussing Game of Thrones and that's
partly because I used to listen that
stuff while it was lifting weights or
doing push-ups and you know what it was
back when I was studying Japanese also
I'd spend long hours just writing out
sentences and Japanese I used to listen
that kind of and when I was washing
dishes and things like that - I've
listened to a lot of stuff I've never
heard that addressed I've never heard
that discussed anywhere and it's again
it's not obvious if you're just reading
the books it's not obvious from the TV
show at all the TV show I think they
were among the many mistakes they made
they really made the mistake of just
fading out the religious content and
when you so in the earlier seasons you
get some sense that religion is
important but then it fades out as the
seasons progress so I can the TV show
even you're on Greyjoy
so you're on Greyjoy sorry I was gonna
say he's the guy with one eye but in the
TV show he doesn't even have one eye
you're hungry guy is the guy with a bit
of a reddish beard who's trying to marry
Queen Cersei he's not a religious figure
at all in the TV show and in the book
he's kind of only religious his entire
significance is religious
he's a kind of messianic end of the
world religious figure and at the same
time he's a piratical piratical would-be
King and so on but with you delete the
religion from euron greyjoy story he's
just a pirate with an eyepatch there's
not a lot of substance there you know
that's see that's a huge mistake
um stylistically and in terms of
systematically and in terms of content
in terms of everything else but likewise
the children of the forest so in the TV
show
they're just magic elves who throw
fireballs like there's nothing
interesting about them a very obviously
if you've read George RR Martin's other
science fiction the point of this
allegory of the trees the blood eating
blood drinking trees so again you don't
get that from the TV show human
sacrifice is demanded by the trees
traditionally they poured out blood and
entrails you know so blood and guts on
the roots of these trees the trees
themselves bleed red they have this red
SAP suspiciously and Brandon Stark when
he goes up to be initiated into the cult
of the trees he eats a red porridge or
seemingly a blood porridge and so on
this is all blood imagery so again this
is in a song for Leah and elsewhere this
idea of a parasite and again so it's
it's religion literally depicted as a
parasite that destroys your sense of
individuality that gives you a calming
and reassuring sense of peace and
collectiveness and indeed immortality
but of course it's an illusion and then
of course one of the ways in which are
shown this is bad that george RR martin
isn't just praising this is that
the physical reality of who these beings
are the aliens are the children before
the aliens are the elves everyone say
they have actually devolved they've
become weaker and weaker they've
withered away from human beings they've
lost a lot of their mental capacity what
have you so I just mentioned like
Preston Jacobs seems to read this a
hundred percent wrong
Preston Jacobs has repeatedly stated
that he thinks george RR martin is a
communist that george RR martin
supports this idea of collectivization
of collective mind-melding whatever you
want to say of this loss of generality
and that is not even coherent in
interpreting the source text the current
tech you know Game of Thrones Song of
Ice and Fire itself like do you actually
think that skinchangers are represented
as good people in Game of Thrones do you
think that losing your sense of identity
by sharing your mind by mind melding
with a wolf is represented positively do
you think what's the guy's name
something seven skins I'm forgetting the
guy's name no sir he's it a character
who only appears once in the in the
novels Barrow mirror seven skins I think
this this horrible skin-changer
who lives his life through rape and
extortion and he shows us exactly why
skin changers are hated and - tested in
the society do you think that's positive
you really think this is an author who's
trying to tell you like the way forward
for Humanity is by losing your sense of
individuality and through collectivism
and indeed if you read a song for Lia
maybe especially if you read it twice
you know obviously the POV character in
a song for Lia seems to become convinced
that it's a good thing that his own
girlfriend is being devoured by a
parasite a parasite that physically
devours her body because she's bought
into the religious delusion that by
doing this she gains a kind of
immortality and a kind of loss of self
an overcoming of the the individual and
so on but that's an illusion I mean you
know again it's not the case that George
Armand he's just not such a weak writer
that he has a protagonist tell
you the moral hypothesis of the story
that just wouldn't be very sophisticated
writing or it's not his style I'm not
saying that's that's bad it was ok
another another comparison we've been
talking about reading again turgenyev
fathers and sons george anyof doesn't
tell you nihilism is bad and he doesn't
tell you nihilism is good he has a major
character I think technically is not the
protagonist but he's but he is a major
character who believes in nihilism and
you get to see some of the absurdities
of that you know you get gives a voice
to nihilism he says some positive things
about nihilism as a philosophy but among
other things that the nihilist in that
story I forget his name - Vladislav or
something Borissov I'm sorry I forget
then with the denialists character in in
I've read that like 30 years ago or
something I'm sorry I'm not only 39 but
still I read that a long time ago my
girlfriend also read that a long long
time ago stupid type of reading again
but you know um it would really be lousy
writing if he just had a whole row ik
depiction of nihilism instead he shows
that when the nihilist falls in love the
nihilist gets a crush on the main female
character who I think is named Ana and
his philosophy starts falling apart his
life's kind of stops making sense just
by falling in love he sort of has this
system worked out for how he's a
nihilist in society but actually like
falling in love and getting married and
having kids or something you think about
what there's other there's other stuff
like this baby if you want to jump in
you can jump in anytime obvious no no
pressure on you around well uh you know
I know ok ok so anyway uh that's just
that's just a comparison but no in a
song for Leah or in Game of Thrones like
think about a lane would be if we had
Jon Snow standing up and saying hey
democracy is the solution to all of our
problems in Westeros that would be
really unsophisticated think the novel's
are interested in democracy in contrast
to feudalism but Jon Snow himself is
elected in a deeply flawed somewhat
corrupt election so I think it was again
push out at the present Jacobs
Preston Jacobs went through like line by
line the description of exactly how that
election happens and he points out that
it's the election is more corrupt than
you'd notice on a first on a first
reading
but elections are not glorified the
description sorry the descriptions we
get of the set of more greco-roman
city-states in Essos and how elections
work there they seem totally corrupt
also is totally susceptible to the
moment-to-moment passions of the people
we get descriptions of in these cities
that you know some of the guys who are
trying to get elected they corrupt other
people by paying for singers and dancers
and clowns and entertainers to promote
their their campaign but some of them
even pay prostitutes to sleep with you
know influential electors or voters or
what have you we get you know and again
if you actually study the reality of how
democracy works in ancient Rome in
ancient Greece there's a lot there we're
getting this that's why the books are
compelling you know the books are
compelling because they're not pro
religion they're not pro
collectivization they're definitely not
pro communist they're also not pro
democracy we get that nuanced gritty
sense that even real history sometimes
lacks because if it's not written well
if you don't if you read a history book
and it's not written to give you that
compelling sense of human imperfection
and complexity the human tragedy that's
in the in the center of all these things
then history books suck also so it's
better than a lot of history books and
really giving you that feeling we're you
know like it's not easy for someone in
John snows position or someone in
daenerys targaryen position it's not
easy for them to just say oh feudalism
is bad
democracy is gonna solve all our
problems that it's really difficult to
come to the conclusion that although
democracy has all these problems it is
actually superior to feudalism in some
really important ways right I think that
is exactly the prediction I want to make
for the future the novels I think the
whole way the novels are written the two
big themes the two big themes are
exactly democracy versus feudalism and
then religion versus individualism
because from George RR Martin's
perspective religion is really
integrally centrally crucially about
losing one sense of self in an illusion
of a greater whole and that's partly
just the kind of collective ego of the
religion
and for sure he's also partly interested
in and mortal izing your own memories
that like your memories of the past will
live on after you die and he's also
interested in the idea of of seeing the
future although again a careful reading
of Game of Thrones I think what we're
told again and again is that everyone he
thinks they're seeing the future they're
actually they're actually they're seeing
they're basically seeing dreams or
delusions they're being misled they
think they're seeing the future and
really they're not so that is my
prediction for the book in making this
video I feel like I've made myself feel
more hopeful and more positively to read
the books because I started this off the
last couple months since that last
season the show ran man I have been out
I have just thought this is crap I don't
even want to hear about it anymore the
show is that bad that it totally
destroyed you know my interest in in the
books and you know again at this
specific book series I do put on the
same level than st. pedestal as like you
know Shakespeare were to have you as a
really great writing but I think the
other moral of the story is giorgia or
Martin is a writer who toiled for
decades to try to get these same ideas
ideas about religion and democracy and
individualism and collectivism and and
feudalism and his critique of feudalism
and hierarchy he tried to get them into
a science fiction format and the truth
is it never really worked and only now
in his old age actually did he find a
format this very strange semi-feudal
parallel universe thing that he's doing
where these ideas really come to life so
that's also very helpful and I'm lifting
thing if you're a struggling author if
you're a struggling intellectual maybe
you and your old age will be able to put
together these ideas you've wrestled
with your whole life into something
that's really compelling and really
reaches a mass audience I remember it
was just in a CD back when people bought
music on pieces of plastic I remember
was on a CD jacket that it said there
was a time when popular music also was
great art there was this brief period of
jazz Game of Thrones one of things
that's so enticing about it is that we
can look at this series of novels as a
hey there was a brief period of time
when pop culture also was great
literature
[Music]